=pod

=head1 NAME

edg-mkgridmap.conf - edg-mkgridmap configuration file

=head1 DESCRIPTION

F<edg-mkgridmap.conf> file contains configuration informations for
B<edg-mkgridmap>.

The default location is F</etc/edg-mkgridmap.conf>.

The F<edg-mkgridmap.conf> file is a free-form ASCII text file. It is
parsed by the descent parser built into B<edg-mkgridmap>. The file may
contain extra tabs and white spaces for formatting purposes. Keywords in
the file are case-insensitive. Comments may be placed anywhere within the
file (except within quotes). Comments begin with the # character and end
at the end of the line.

The file essentially consists of a list of directives composed by a
keyword and one or more arguments. Optional arguments are put in square
brackets.

=over 4

=item * B<group> I<URI> I<[lcluser]>

=item * B<default_lcluser> I<default_lcluser>

=item * B<auth> I<URI>

=item * B<allow>|B<deny> I<pattern_to_match>

=item * B<gmf_local> I<grid-mapfile-local>

=back

=head1 EXAMPLE

  #### GROUP: group URI [lcluser]
  group ldaps://grid-vo.infn.it/ou=testbed1,o=infn,c=it .infngrid
  group ldaps://grid-vo.infn.it/ou=testbed2,o=infn,c=it
  group ldaps://grid-vo.infn.it/ou=testbed3,o=infn,c=it AUTO
  group https://grid-vo.infn.it/infngrid/testbed1 .infngrid
  group https://grid-vo.infn.it/infngrid/testbed2
  group https://grid-vo.infn.it/infngrid/testbed3 AUTO
  group vomss://voms.hellasgrid.gr:8443/voms/dteam?/dteam/Role=lcgadmin dteamsgm
  group vomss://voms.hellasgrid.gr:8443/voms/dteam?/dteam .dteam

  #### DEFAULT_LCLUSER: default_lcluser lcluser
  default_lcluser .infngrid

  #### AUTH: auth URI
  auth ldaps://grid-auth.infn.it/ou=People,o=infn,c=it

  #### ALLOW and DENY: deny|allow pattern_to_match
  deny *L=Parma*
  allow *INFN*

  #### GMF_LOCAL: gmf_local grid-mapfile-local
  gmf_local /etc/grid-mapfile-local1
  gmf_local /etc/grid-mapfile-local2
  gmf_local /etc/grid-mapfile-local3

=head1 REFERENCE: GROUP

The I<group> B<directive>

B<group> I<URI> I<[lcluser]>

A B<group> directive defines a group of people which are members of a VO.
I<lcluser>, if specified, is the local user name associated to each member
of the group. If I<lcluser> is not specified, the default local user is
implicitly used. If someone belongs to more than one group, the first
match is used.

The I<URI> may be of these types:

ldap[s]://<host>[:<port>]/<group>[??<scope>?<filter>]

http[s]://<host>[:<port>]/<group>

voms[s]://<host>[:<port>]/edg-voms-admin/<vo>[?<group>[/Role=<role>]]

For ldap URI the default scope is base and the default filter is
(objectClass=*).

For voms/vomss URI the default port is the same of http/https URI.

Specify I<AUTO> as I<lcluser> or I<default_lcluser> for automatic
generation of local usernames. In this case the executable
F<local-subject2user> is used. I<local-subject2user> is called with the user
certificate subject as argument and writes to the standard output the
local username associated with the user certificate subject. This allows
local sites to customize the output of B<edg-mkgridmap>.

Specify I<.> or I<.[PREFIX]> (eg I<.cms>) as I<lcluser> or
I<default_lcluser> to enable dynamic allocation of local usernames (Andrew
McNab's gridmapdir patch).

=head1 REFERENCE: DEFAULT_LCLUSER

The I<default_lcluser> B<directive>

B<default_lcluser> I<default_lcluser>

The B<default_lcluser> directive defines the default local user.

=head1 REFERENCE: AUTH

The I<auth> B<directive>

B<auth> I<URI>

The B<auth> directive specifies a group of people which are authorized to
access to the local resources. If the certificate subject of a member of a
ldap/ldaps group is not present in this authorized group, it will not be
inserted in the grid-mapfile. If B<auth> is omitted, this feature is
disabled.

The I<URI> may be of these types:

ldap[s]://<host>[:<port>]/<group>[??<scope>?<filter>]

The default scope is one and the default filter is (description=subject=*).

=head1 REFERENCE: ALLOW and DENY

The I<allow>|I<deny> B<directive>

B<allow>|B<deny> I<pattern_to_match>

B<allow> and B<deny> directives define the access control list. The
pattern to match may contain wildcards; the test is done on the user
certificate subject. Parsing stops at the first match. If there is at
least an allow, there is an implicit B<deny> I<*> at the end, otherwise
there is an implicit B<allow> I<*>. Parsing is not case sensitive.

=head1 REFERENCE: GMF_LOCAL

The I<gmf_local> B<directive>

B<gmf_local> I<grid-mapfile-local>

The B<gmf_local> directive specifies a local grid-mapfile useful to add
static entries in the grid-mapfile.

=head1 FILES

F</etc/edg-mkgridmap.conf>

=head1 SEE ALSO

edg-mkgridmap(8)

=head1 AUTHORS

EU DataGrid Authorization Working Group,
EGEE Middleware Security Group, Maarten Litmaath (CERN/WLCG)

=cut
